Welcome to JW Broadcasting®!
This month we’ll explore
the appealing quality of humility
—the many ways it enriches our life
and brings joy to Jehovah.
We’ll see how husbands and wives
can work together with humility
to resolve disagreements
and restore peace in their marriage.
Do you find it difficult to navigate
this increasingly polarized world?
We’ll hear from young publishers
who have learned
to imitate humbly Jehovah’s reasonableness.
Are you sometimes discouraged by your flaws?
This month’s music video
invites us to be like soft clay
that Jehovah molds
into a beautiful spiritual person.
This is JW Broadcasting for February 2025!
Have you ever considered
who is the greatest example of humility?
If your answer is Jehovah, you’re correct.
Why?
Because every living, intelligent creation
is inferior to him;
yet, he chose to
and continues to include others
in his activities.
Humility can be described
as ‘lowliness of mind
and being free from pride and arrogance.’
A humble person finds happiness
in including others
in his life and endeavors.
Because of its many benefits,
our theme for discussion this month is
“Humility—A Quality
That Will Enrich Our Life Eternally.”
Jehovah’s great measure of humility
became apparent
when he collaborated
with his only-begotten Son
and included him
as his “master worker” in creation.
Later, as angels were created,
these mighty spirit creatures
imitated the humility
already being shown by Jehovah.
These faithful angels
were free from pride and arrogance.
This resulted in everyone in heaven
enjoying peace for eons of time.
Humility in heaven is like oil to an engine;
it keeps things running smoothly.
Satan was the first one to succumb
to the temptation of pride and arrogance,
rejecting the godlike quality of humility.
When he did so,
rebellion and turmoil soon followed.
But it’s important for us to note
that the need for humility didn’t arise
because of sin,
rebellion, and imperfection.
Humility existed before these ugly traits.
It’s also vital for us to understand
that while Jehovah is inferior to no one,
that’s not the case with us.
Jehovah knows that the quality of humility
will help us in our imperfect condition.
For example,
it will help us to imitate him,
to faithfully serve him,
and to survive the end
of this system of things.
Yes, Jehovah knows
that humility will enrich our lives today
and eternally.
We can see how important
this endearing quality is to Jehovah
when we read Psalm 45:3, 4.
Jehovah gave these prophetic instructions
to his kingly Son
before the great battle in heaven:
“Strap your sword on your side, O mighty one,
“in your dignity and your splendor.
“And in your splendor go on to victory;
“ride in the cause of truth and humility
and righteousness.”
These verses describe Jesus Christ
as a king riding in battle
to defend truth, humility, and righteousness.
The greatest truth he defends
is the sanctification
of Jehovah’s great name.
In connection with righteousness,
he supports Jehovah’s standards
of right and wrong.
And in the case of humility,
he restores it to its rightful place
among all intelligent creation.
Jesus has already reaffirmed
these timeless standards in heaven.
Soon he’ll do the same for the earth,
with the commission to save only those
who are humble and obedient.
Our developing and displaying humility, then,
is essential to our survival.
If you want to know
if you are truly humble at heart,
ask yourself,
‘How do others view me?’
If you serve as a congregation elder,
do your fellow elders
feel comfortable giving you counsel?
When was the last time they did so?
How did you react?
If you’re serving as a pioneer,
do you endeavor to learn
from those with less experience?
Do our loved ones in our family
feel that we really consider
their opinion on matters?
Why are questions like these important?
Because a truly humble person
will make a realistic assessment of himself
with such questions.
Why is that?
Because humility
is directly related to honesty.
True humility enables us
to see ourselves as we really are
and to honestly admit
all of our weaknesses and failures.
In contrast,
pride and arrogance
are directly related to deception.
An arrogant person
covers up his weaknesses and failures.
And that can only last so long
because eventually ‘pride leads to a crash,’
as Proverbs 16:18 warns us.
Let’s consider five ways
that humility enriches our life.
First, the Bible clearly teaches
that humble people receive God’s help.
One example is David.
He became a powerful king in Israel.
Yet, notice whom
he attributed his greatness to
at Psalm 18:35:
“You give me your shield of salvation,
“your right hand supports me,
and your humility makes me great.”
Because Jehovah is humble,
he lowered himself to assist David,
enabling this humble man
to become a mighty king.
Down to our day, Jehovah delights
to come to the aid of his humble servants.
Have you not felt him ‘stoop down,’
as it were, to help you?
A second benefit
is that having a humble disposition
will protect us
—just as a heavy coat
can protect us from harsh elements.
It also makes our personality
more attractive to Jehovah and to others.
Notice the word picture Peter used
at 1 Peter 5:5b:
“But all of you clothe yourselves
with humility toward one another,
“because God opposes the haughty ones,
but he gives undeserved kindness
to the humble ones.”
Clothing both protects and dignifies.
If we’re missing an item of clothing
or our clothing is frayed,
others can surely see it.
Likewise, others can usually see
if we’re not fully clothed with humility.
In contrast,
the more humility we display,
the more attractive we are
to Jehovah and to others.
Just like a favorite garment,
humility should be our go-to quality
that’s perfect for any occasion.
A third benefit of humility
is that it fosters teamwork.
When coworkers apply Philippians 2:3,
they’re able to enjoy
productive collaboration.
That verse says:
“Do nothing out of contentiousness
or out of egotism,
but with humility
consider others superior to you.”
When we appreciate that everyone
is superior to us in some way,
we’ll be more inclined
to listen to their suggestions.
Humility promotes cooperation,
not competition.
Humble people see others
as resources and contributors,
not rivals.
Consider a single musician.
By himself, he can generally only produce
the sound from one instrument.
However, as a member of an orchestra,
the entire musical performance is enriched.
A humble musician
finds contentment in collaboration,
even if that places him in the background.
He doesn’t aspire to receive
all of the attention of a solo performance
or to play so loud
that he drowns out his fellow performers.
One translation renders “humility”
at Philippians 2:3
to be “self-effacing.”
This means
to make ourselves inconspicuous,
working in the background
and avoiding the limelight.
That’s like a photographer
who takes portraits of others
instead of himself.
And as he focuses on others,
the photographer endeavors
to capture their features in the best light
so that they look their best.
The same principle applies
to our sacred service.
In all aspects of our worship,
let’s remember
that we’re part of Jehovah’s team.
By all of us humbly cooperating together,
we’ll be useful to Jehovah
in accomplishing his will.
Our humility will put others
in a favorable light
with God and with others.
A fourth benefit of humility
is that a humble person genuinely enjoys
seeing others make advancement
or receive privileges.
John the Baptist
is a good example in this regard.
He humbly acknowledged
that Jesus’ ministry
would “keep on increasing”
as his own work
would “keep on decreasing.”
How did John feel about that?
Seeing the advancement of Jesus
moved John to say at John 3:29:
“My joy has been made complete.”
Like John,
humility allows a brother
to be an overseer at one time
and one being overseen at another time.
If you have the privilege
to serve as a congregation elder,
can you see how this spirit
would benefit your entire elder body?
A fifth benefit is that humility helps us
to endure opposition.
A humble person doesn’t feel
he’s above being reproached.
He’s able to endure unpleasant situations
and not retaliate
if Jehovah permits him to suffer adversity.
We have the example of Jesus as highlighted
at 1 Peter 2:23.
There it says:
“When he was being insulted,
he did not insult in return.
“When he was suffering,
he did not threaten,
but he entrusted himself
to the One who judges righteously.”
What helped Jesus to endure?
Humility.
He didn’t think: ‘Do you know who I am?
I shouldn’t have to suffer like this!’
Likewise,
our maintaining a humble demeanor
may well serve as a protection for us,
perhaps even moving observers
to come to our aid
when others oppose us.
We’ve just talked
about five benefits of humility,
and there are many others.
But what if we find
that our background or culture
makes cultivating humility
especially challenging for us?
If this is how you feel,
you may be encouraged by the example
of a Roman army officer introduced to us
in Matthew chapter 8.
A Roman centurion
had direct command of about 100 soldiers.
He likely had a past littered
with many acts of violence and bloodshed.
Humility was likely not a quality associated
with many officers of this rank.
Let’s read the account at Matthew 8:5-8:
“When he [Jesus] entered Capernaum,
“an army officer came to him,
pleading with him and saying:
“‘Sir, my servant
is laid up in the house with paralysis,
“and he is suffering terribly.’
“He said to him:
‘When I get there, I will cure him.’
“The army officer replied:
“‘Sir, I am not worthy
to have you come under my roof,
but just say the word
and my servant will be healed.’”
The officer’s addressing Jesus twice as “Sir”
was significant,
since Romans generally despised Jews.
This army officer also said in verse 8:
“I am not worthy.”
In other words, “I’m not important enough
for you to come under my roof.”
Though unnamed in the Scriptures,
he proved himself
to be an outstanding example of humility.
Note what Jesus said about this officer
at Matthew 8:10:
“When Jesus heard that,
“he was amazed
and said to those following him:
“‘I tell you the truth,
with no one in Israel
have I found so great a faith.’”
How does this account encourage us?
Despite our past, like the army officer,
all of us can develop humility.
How can we do so?
Cultivate a desire
to be humble to your very core.
Frequently remind yourself
that to please God,
you must be humble.
Also remember that pride and arrogance
are traits of Satan.
Keep the correct perspective
by meditating on your insignificance
compared to Jehovah.
And pray to Jehovah for help
to display humility as he does.
Happiness in marriage requires humility,
especially when husbands and wives
don’t see eye to eye.
When a disagreement leads to hurt feelings,
do we find it hard to apologize?
Notice what can help in this episode
of For a Happy Marriage.
A strong marriage
can be an oasis of peace
in a difficult world.
But no matter how strong the bond,
every marriage consists
of an imperfect man
and an imperfect woman
living in a confined space.
Even in a happy marriage,
disagreements can arise
that lead loving spouses
to use hurtful words.
At a certain point, you may not even remember
how the disagreement started.
And yet, the conflict escalates.
Has this ever happened to you?
Did you apologize and make things right?
The mere passing of time
won’t make the hurt disappear.
The real triumph
—peace—can only come about
with a sincere apology.
“Do nothing out of contentiousness
or out of egotism,
but with humility
consider others superior to you.”
Try to see things
from your spouse’s viewpoint.
How would a sincere apology make you feel?
Don’t let your ego get in the way.
Take responsibility
for your part in the dispute
even if you don’t think
you’ve done anything wrong.
Acknowledge the hurt
you’ve caused your spouse,
and be quick to accept
each other’s sincere apologies.
Peaceful relationships are worth much more
than pride or victory.
But peace
in the family must be maintained.
It can be easy
to focus on your mate’s flaws.
So when you feel like
you’re being pushed to your limit,
remember
James 3:2 says:
“We all stumble many times.”
The quicker you apologize,
no matter who is to blame,
the faster you restore
the peace and happiness in your family.
When you sincerely apologize
and accept your mate’s apology,
you put your marriage ahead of yourself
and continue to strengthen your bond of love.
Every couple will have disagreements.
So take the time now
to prepare together
for a peaceful resolution.
Earlier we noted that humility
is linked to honesty.
Being honest with ourselves
about our own weaknesses and faults
cultivates empathy for our spouse
and makes it easier to offer
and accept a sincere apology.
Promoting peace outside the home
can be even more challenging
in this deeply divided world.
People are ideologically polarized.
Some argue that we should accept
every lifestyle and belief without exception.
Others view those
who are different with hatred.
The Bible reveals,
from Jehovah’s perspective,
how we should treat others.
In our next segment,
see how learning about this strengthened
the faith of two young ones.
In what ways have you seen people
treat others who are different from them?
When I was at school,
a common viewpoint of my schoolmates
was that you should be accepting
of whatever lifestyle
someone chooses to lead.
Teachers would encourage us to support
those with different sexual orientations.
In my final year of high school,
a new teacher arrived.
He was different.
He came from the capital,
and I lived in a small town.
He had spent many years at university
and didn’t believe in God.
On social media, it was very common
to see extreme viewpoints
about different lifestyles.
I often saw comments
attacking others for their lifestyles.
The teacher had a very different personality.
He seemed to like attacking the students
and putting them on the spot.
He would ask probing questions
about controversial topics in class
and even made comments to the class like,
“The people from here
aren’t made for learning.”
Of course, the students
didn’t react very well.
Many of them refused to attend his classes,
or if they did, they refused to speak to him
during the class.
I remember them saying,
“I’m not going to talk with that atheist.”
I remember that some classmates
would say to me,
“Don’t Jehovah’s Witnesses
hate gay people?”
It seemed like many students assumed
that we must have an extreme viewpoint
and that we would completely reject those
who don’t conform to our beliefs.
What helped you get the Bible’s viewpoint?
My parents always helped me
to have a balanced viewpoint.
As I was growing up,
they helped me understand that even though
we completely reject certain conduct,
we don’t hate the person who practices it.
I learned a lot from my mom’s example.
She used to work at a beauty salon,
and I saw how she
was always kind to others she worked with,
regardless of their sexual orientation.
I thought of Jesus’ example
—how he shared the message with everyone
no matter their thinking or background.
Jesus took the time to talk with them,
no matter who they were
or what others thought of them.
I love the scripture at Matthew 5:45,
where it says that Jehovah
makes the sun shine
and the rain fall on all people.
This is an expression of his love,
to provide what each person needs
no matter who they are.
As I was thinking about Jesus’ example,
I remembered his words recorded at Matthew,
where he tells us
that what “you want men to do to you,
you also must do to them.”
This helped me to think about
how I should act around my teacher.
It made me treat him differently.
I mean, if Jehovah, the Almighty God,
is kind, good, and respectful toward all,
why shouldn’t I be?
And that would include those
whose conduct I don’t agree with.
Jehovah has given us the best way
to show our love for our neighbor,
by helping them to come to know him.
What has been the outcome
of applying Bible principles?
At my previous job, I worked at a hotel
where there was a waiter who was gay.
Some of his coworkers would treat him poorly.
So I made sure I didn’t join in with them
and treated him like I would anyone else.
I was able to have conversations
with my teacher about the Bible
and share scriptures with him.
He was impressed by what the Bible
had to say on scientific matters
and said he wanted to find out more.
One day, the waiter came up to me
and thanked me for being different
from the others in the way I treated him.
Even some of the other waiters
asked me why I was like that.
This opened up the opportunity
to explain that I try
to apply Bible principles in my life,
including how I treat others.
There was a noticeable change in the teacher
as the school year went on.
He told me that he was impressed
by my conduct
and because I had spoken with him
when none of the other students would.
His classes became so much better
because he started
to be nicer to his students.
Little by little,
the students returned to class,
and by the end of the year,
it had become one of the classes
that we enjoyed the most.
When I think about the way
that Jehovah treats people
and how he gives everyone a chance
to learn about him,
I’m drawn to him even more.
Living by Bible standards doesn’t mean
that we agree with every belief
or opinion that others have.
It does mean treating everyone
with dignity and respect,
regardless of the choices they make.
Jehovah wants all people
to have an opportunity to know him.
Public witnessing
has long been a powerful way
to accomplish this.
Yet, many aspects of this work
have changed over time,
as we’ll see in this episode
of Our History in Motion.
As Jehovah’s Witnesses,
we preach to people wherever we find them.
Today, our literature carts and displays
are a common sight all over the world.
But how did public witnessing get started?
We’ll explore this story
of courage and innovation
on this episode of Our History in Motion.
Jesus set the precedent
for public witnessing.
He taught in the “main streets”
and “along the road.”
The apostle Paul
and other first-century Christians
followed that courageous pattern.
Jehovah’s modern-day people
follow a similar example.
In the late 1800’s, the Bible Students,
as we were called back then,
published a booklet called
The Bible vs. Evolution.
The goal?
To distribute over 300,000 copies.
But there was only
a small group of Bible Students at the time.
How could they distribute
that much literature?
The April 15, 1899,
issue of The Watchtower
sent out a call:
“Volunteers Wanted!”
The plan?
To stand at street corners
outside of churches,
distributing the tract to anyone interested.
Clergy members were not happy with this.
They even tried to have the publishers
arrested for distributing free tracts.
Nonetheless, the Bible Students
courageously did not give up.
In just one year, over 900,000 tracts
were distributed at street corners
all across North America and Europe.
Our public witnessing work
was just getting started.
In the 1920’s,
we launched a massive preaching campaign
around the publication and public talk series
“Millions Now Living Will Never Die.”
We thought outside the box
and tried numerous methods
to draw the public’s attention.
And it worked!
Over the next several years,
we developed even more methods
of reaching people.
Brothers and sisters
even wore their public witnessing
in the form of placards
—known as sandwich boards—
and magazine bags.
There were information marches.
Imagine being part of one!
And Brother Rutherford, of course,
was a shorthand expert,
and whenever you would talk to him,
he’d always be busy writing.
He would be making notes,
filing them away.
So he was doing that this day.
He ripped it off, and he gave it to me,
and he said, “What do you think of it?”
And it said:
“Religion Is a Snare and a Racket.”
So I said, “My, that’s pretty strong.”
As a matter of fact, I said, “That’s hot!”
Well, he said,
“That’s what I meant it to be.”
So now he said:
“Don’t you think this is a good idea?
“We’re going to have
a big information march two days from now.
“Couldn’t Brother Clay in the Printing
Department make up some signs
“‘Religion Is a Snare and a Racket,’
put them on poles,
and we’ll have them for the parade?”
So, all right, then that’s what we did.
And Brother Knorr
was also in London at that time,
so he and I led this parade.
The parade was six miles (10 km) long;
a thousand brothers showed up for the parade.
It really was a spectacle.
In the years that followed,
information marches such as these
took place across the world.
In January of 1940,
the Informant  announced
the beginning of magazine street work,
with a focus on working
the busiest parts of cities.
After that, many became familiar
with Jehovah’s Witnesses
by seeing us offering magazines on streets
all over the world.
However,
not everyone appreciated our efforts.
In some cases, entire mobs of people
would attack our brothers and sisters.
But they courageously pressed forward
in the preaching work
despite the constant threat of violence.
Their faithful presence and personal interest
even led some to change their opinion
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
You might even know
a brother or sister who found the truth
by stopping at a literature display
at a university, shopping center, or airport.
A major milestone occurred
at the dawn of the 21st century
when the Governing Body
approved our brothers in France
to begin testing
different methods of public witnessing,
including the use of literature carts,
which looked much different
from what we use today.
After years of success,
the Governing Body continued
to make refinements to public witnessing,
including the development
of special metropolitan public witnessing.
These changes put us in contact with people
we wouldn’t have found
when working from house to house.
That brings us to today,
where public witnessing
is a key part of our ministry.
Literature carts are so familiar
that we’ve even written a song about them.
But whether you’re one of thousands
in an information march
or just one publisher on a street corner,
the goal is the same
—to demonstrate our love for Jehovah
and to reach people’s hearts.
See you next time on Our History in Motion.
Can you picture yourself
among the thousand Witnesses
in that six-mile-long (10 km)
information march?
It takes courage and humility
to step out into the public eye
and proclaim the good news.
Through public witnessing,
we’ve scattered countless seeds of truth.
It can take some time
to see the positive impact
of our decisions to serve others and Jehovah.
That was the case
with Michael and Linda DiGregorio.
Here’s their experience.
We love spending time with people
who want to do more in Jehovah’s service.
Being willing to serve others
leads to a life full of blessings.
In the late 1970’s,
Linda and I were both assigned
as special pioneers in Minnesota.
That’s where we first met.
Then I was invited to Gilead
and was assigned to the Dominican Republic,
serving at the branch.
And that’s when we got married,
and Linda joined me there.
The Dominican Republic branch
was still quite small in those years.
So right after we got married,
our assigned room was the Bethel library.
And we were told,
“This is the library,
“so the door needs to be open
until nine o’clock at night
—every night.”
So that presented some unique challenges.
And that was really a life lesson for us.
You really needed to keep
a good sense of humor.
By nature, I’m pretty shy,
but Dominicans are fun
and open and very lighthearted.
That was a huge help to me
because I learned a lot
about how not to take things so seriously.
And I also learned
that things we considered essentials
were not essentials.
You could live very happily with a lot less.
And that was really good training for me.
So after being in the Dominican Republic
for a few years,
the work was moving forward.
There was a new branch under construction.
It even looked like we
were going to have the possibility
of having a room with an ocean view.
But all of that was about to change.
It certainly was.
In 1989, the Berlin Wall fell,
and that started a ripple effect.
A lot of the small countries
in Eastern Europe were starting
to gain independence,
and now they were able
to have more religious freedom
than they ever had before.
It was very interesting to us
because Mike had family in Albania,
which was one of those countries
that had been under ban for many years.
We thought maybe it might be possible
to visit Albania if it wasn’t too dangerous
for two or three days
to meet the family and to reconnect.
It wasn’t long after that
that we unexpectedly got
a letter from the Governing Body.
And the letter said:
“We understand you’re going
“to Albania for two or three days.
“We’re wondering if you’d be willing
to stay for two or three months
and help with the Kingdom work.”
We weren’t really sure what that meant,
but we were willing to try.
The reality was that the Governing Body
had very limited information
about what was happening in Albania.
The work was under ban.
They didn’t have a branch.
They didn’t have a congregation.
Many of them didn’t even know
if each other were still around.
They didn’t know
if we could find housing there
and if we could find food.
The country was in a total economic crisis.
Even with all the unknowns,
we were still thrilled to go.
And we knew, well,
it’s going to be two or three months,
and you can do pretty much anything
for two or three months.
We’re going to give it our best shot.
Of course, once we arrived,
we got a better picture
of what was really happening.
The infrastructure had actually collapsed.
People were scrambling
to get a new government up and going.
It was quite difficult.
But each assignment that we had
prepared us for the next assignment.
Having lived in the Dominican Republic
where there were already limited resources
didn’t make it quite as scary.
It made that bridge
a little easier for us to cross.
Some of the first things that we had to do
was try to see if we could find
the old brothers and sisters.
There were just a handful of them.
And at the same time,
we had to try to do what we could
to meet with officials
and see what could be done
to help move the work forward legally.
In the process
of trying to get the work legalized,
unexpectedly we found out
that a brother from the United States
who had an Albanian background
was coming to visit his relatives.
And I said to him one day:
“Tomorrow I have a meeting
“with the ministry
who’s responsible to give us legalization.
Would you like to come with me?”
“Oh, I’d be delighted,” he said.
So we went to the office.
When we got to the office,
the minister wasn’t there,
but he sent his legal adviser out.
She made introductions.
And then she looked at the brother,
and she said, “Where are you from?”
And he said, “Such and such a village.”
And she said, “That’s my village.”
It turned out to be that they were cousins.
Now, she looked at everybody,
and she said:
“My goodness,
I was already willing to help you
“because there was
never a charter that I’ve read
“that’s better written than yours.
But now I have a family obligation.”
It was just a few days later
that we got a call
and we had the document in our hands.
Jehovah’s Witnesses in Albania
were finally legalized.
The ban was lifted after 50 years.
After the work was legalized,
we just saw Jehovah’s spirit
work so mightily.
Things were just moving forward
in a way that we never expected.
They were flooding into the meetings.
Young people and older people
were really hungry for the truth.
At the end of the three-month assignment,
the Governing Body kindly asked us,
“Would you now be willing to stay
since the work is legalized?”
Well, at this point,
those folks had become so dear to our hearts;
there was no way that we could leave.
We couldn’t leave our family.
And we were thrilled
to be able to stay with them.
We ended up serving in Albania
just about 30 years.
And those 30 years went by very quickly.
Who knew that a three-day trip would turn
into an assignment of a lifetime?
When you allow yourself
to go outside your comfort zone,
you learn a lot about yourself.
But you’re also more useful to Jehovah.
You’re also in a better position
to help other people.
And that’s an opportunity
you never want to miss.
And, really, never say no to an assignment
just because we might be fearful
of what the unknown is.
When we put ourself in Jehovah’s hands,
he’s the one that will take on
the responsibility to help us.
So put him to the test.
Let him help us.
He knows where to put us at the right time.
And in reality,
we’re just a pencil in Jehovah’s hands,
letting him do the writing.
Michael and Linda
chose to serve in Albania for decades,
even when it was hard.
Today, over 5,000 Witnesses
serve Jehovah in that land.
Now we’ll examine
the contrasting examples of humility
of two men named Saul.
Please enjoy this Morning Worship talk
by Brother Geoffrey Jackson
of the Governing Body.
When we think of the matter of humility,
we realize there are many examples
in the Bible to help us
—some positive, some negative.
Perhaps now we could just think
for a few moments
about one negative example
and one positive example
of two men
who both had the name Saul.
The first one we’ll think about is the man
who became known as King Saul of Israel.
If you’d like to take your Bibles, please,
and turn with me
to the beginning of the book of 1 Samuel,
you’ll notice the outline of contents there
gives us an overview
of what happened at that particular time.
So in the outline of contents,
we notice there in chapter 10 it says:
“Saul anointed to be king.”
Do you remember
the circumstances at that point?
Was Saul proud?
Was he presenting himself as “the man,”
the one who would lead the nation
into a new era?
No.
We remember how the Scriptures describe
that he was ‘hiding in the luggage.’
So he didn’t want a prominent position.
He was hesitant to take that role.
But Jehovah blessed him,
and he was anointed.
And if we look on a little further,
we see in chapter 11
that he “defeats the Ammonites.”
At that point, it does specifically say
that Jehovah’s spirit was with him.
And also there’s mention
of the fact that humbly
he did not retaliate
against those who opposed him.
But when we look down to chapter 13,
what does it say there?
“Saul acts presumptuously,”
so he had lost his humility
and lost Jehovah’s favor.
How long into his rulership was this?
Well, if we look at chapter 13, verse 1,
it tells us
that it was right at the beginning,
maybe just two or three years had passed
at this point.
So, what does that tell us?
He lost his humility very quickly
after being anointed as king.
Not only that but Jehovah allowed him
to continue on in that position
for perhaps over 35 years.
So, what lessons do we learn from that
with regard to ourselves?
Well, the first lesson is:
Perhaps before being appointed to be an elder
or some other service privilege,
we may have been hesitant.
We may have been humble.
We may not have wanted
that particular position.
We may have felt we weren’t qualified.
Maybe we were very humble in our viewpoint.
But remember the case of King Saul.
How quickly
once he got appointed in that position—
How quickly he lost humility!
The second lesson is
that just because we remain in a certain role
or position of authority
does not in itself prove
that Jehovah approves of us
or that we are remaining humble.
So that’s why it’s so important for us
to continually analyze ourselves
to see if we are remaining humble
and we do still have that humility
that we perhaps exhibited many years ago.
Now, the second example
we’d like to discuss
is that of Saul,
who became well-known as the apostle Paul.
Well, how was Saul’s start?
Was he a humble man?
Was he like the man who became King Saul?
Was he ‘hiding in the luggage’?
No.
He was right there in the front.
In fact, in 1 Timothy 1:13,
the apostle Paul describes himself
in those days as “an insolent man,”
and that expression
can indicate someone
who speaks
in a very downgrading way to others.
He humiliates them,
and certainly that would show
a very proud, arrogant man.
And yet, what happened to this man, Saul?
Well, he progressed, became a Christian,
and Jehovah’s spirit helped him
to become a very humble person.
Now, how do we know
that the apostle Paul really was very humble?
Well, there are many things
that we could mention.
But perhaps let’s just talk
about one particular aspect.
Now, I’m going to ask a question
for you to answer yourself.
Do you think the apostle Paul
was an eloquent speaker?
Was he very good at speaking to others?
Your initial reaction might be to say no.
But let’s think a little bit more
before we give a definite answer.
When we look at the book of Acts,
what do we see?
We see recorded there many of the speeches
that the apostle Paul gave.
In Antioch,
he gave a very, very effective witness.
In Lystra,
remember when he and Barnabas were there?
The people thought that he was Hermes
because he was taking the lead
in speaking at that time.
How often have we referred to Acts 17,
where Paul in a very skillful manner
in a very difficult circumstance
was able to preach to people
using this altar
“To an Unknown God.”
He even quoted
from some of the local prophets,
or their poets.
So this helps us to see
that he was a very effective person
when he spoke to others.
On the steps,
when he was taken from the temple
and the crowd wanted to kill him,
he again gave a very effective speech,
not to mention, of course,
the number of times that he spoke
before many of the Gentile rulers
and gave a very effective witness.
So, now, how are we feeling
about the apostle Paul’s ability to speak?
Well, probably we’re thinking:
‘He must have been a very eloquent speaker.
He could really project the message
and persuade others.’
But, now, why was there
a little hesitancy on our part
to say Paul was an excellent speaker?
Well, maybe it comes from one scripture.
Let’s look at 2 Corinthians 11:6.
And here the apostle Paul,
speaking to the brothers in Corinth, says:
“But even if I am unskilled in speech,
I certainly am not in knowledge.”
Was Paul saying here
he didn’t know how to speak?
No.
He was answering
the “superfine apostles” who criticized him,
who spoke in a very disparaging manner
with regard to him.
In fact, they even said
that his speech was “contemptible.”
Now, when Paul says here
“but even if I am unskilled,”
is he really saying
he wasn’t skilled in speaking?
No, he was answering them
according to their own standards
that they had set up.
So with that in mind,
we might ask a question:
Why is it the brothers in Corinth
perhaps had this impression
after what we’ve just considered
with regard to Paul’s background?
Well, let’s have a look at 1 Corinthians,
and this brings us back
to the matter of humility.
So 1 Corinthians chapter 2
—and we’re going to read together
verses 1-5:
“So when I came to you, brothers,
“I did not come
with extravagant speech or wisdom
declaring the sacred secret of God to you.”
So Paul deliberately did not come to them
using all the debating methods
that the Corinthians were used to.
Notice in verse 2 what it tells us:
“For I decided not to know
anything among you
except Jesus Christ,
and him executed on the stake.”
This was a deliberate decision
on the part of the apostle Paul
not to use this extravagant speech,
this wisdom,
that he could have used.
And notice in verses 3-5 how he continues on:
“And I came to you in weakness
and in fear and with much trembling;
“and my speech and what I preached
“were not with persuasive words of wisdom
“but with a demonstration
of spirit and power,
“so that your faith might be,
not in men’s wisdom,
but in God’s power.”
What is Paul saying here?
He realized the brothers in Corinth
had a problem.
They put too much emphasis on worldly wisdom
and the way that people
presented themselves.
No doubt that was part
of why they had divisions
in the congregation.
So Paul,
trying to avoid that situation
and putting emphasis
truly on Jehovah’s holy spirit
and the power of the message,
decided not to use this so-called wisdom
that he could have used.
Isn’t that a very humble action on his part?
He was willing to be thought of badly.
He was willing to have people say
that he couldn’t speak properly
because he wanted
to focus the glory on Jehovah.
What do we learn from this example?
Well, we see that an arrogant person
can become humble.
But also we see that at times we may decide,
if we’re humble,
not to display
the wisdom and talents that we have,
perhaps to downplay them,
so that the glory goes to Jehovah.
So, what an interesting set
of examples for us!
May we never be like King Saul,
who lost his humility,
and may we be like the apostle Paul,
who continued to be humble,
willing to put himself down,
in order for Jehovah’s glory
to be in the fore.
A humble person can become proud.
But Paul is inspiring proof
that a proud and arrogant person
can become humble.
He humbly allowed Jehovah to mold him.
Humbly placing ourselves
in Jehovah’s loving hands
is the theme of the new music video,
which tells the story of a person
who learns the truth while imprisoned.
Jehovah, my God, your eyes can see
An imperfect heart inside of me.
Still, I try to serve you loyally.
When my words get away without restraint
Or things that I do don’t bring you praise,
I beg you, “Please keep working with me.”
I look to you, my Father.
I am the clay; you are my Potter,
Shaping me into something new,
Something that brings praise to you,
Someone who brings
a smile to your face.
Mold me with your loving care.
Help me to draw close in prayer.
My Father, here I am!
I am in your hands.
I am making the time to read your Word
And calling to mind the things I’ve heard.
How I love the way you refine me!
Please put within me a humble heart
That helps me each day to make a new start.
I won’t let my mistakes define me.
I look to you, my Father.
I am the clay; you are my Potter,
Shaping me into something new,
Something that brings praise to you,
Someone who brings
a smile to your face.
Mold me with your loving care.
Help me to draw close in prayer.
My Father, here I am!
I am in your hands.
Help me be like soft clay.
Work with me ev’ry day.
My Father, here I am.
I am in your hands.
If at times you’re discouraged by your flaws
or struggle to make changes in your life,
be assured that Jehovah helps those
who approach him with a humble heart.
As we’ve explored in our program,
humility is an endearing quality
that enriches our lives.
It helps us lovingly
resolve conflicts in marriage,
it moves us to treat others
in a way acceptable to Jehovah,
and it opens our minds
to other methods of preaching.
This month’s postcard comes to us
from Myanmar
in Southeast Asia,
also called Burma.
Some describe Myanmar
as being shaped like a kite
with its tail
running along the Malay Peninsula.
Earliest settlers
called Myanmar the “Golden Land.”
It’s a land of vast natural resources.
Myanmar’s forests produce valued timbers,
like teak and rosewood.
The land is rich in silver,
copper, sapphires, and rubies.
The people are known to be gentle,
considerate, and hospitable.
Eight major ethnic groups live in Myanmar,
each with its own language and culture.
Personal names are usually composed
of several descriptive words.
For example, the name Cho Sandar Myint
means “Sweet Moon Above.”
Visitors to Myanmar
quickly notice the yellow paste
that adorns the faces
of most women and children.
It’s called thanaka,
made from the bark of the thanaka  tree.
This natural cosmetic cools
and protects the skin from the tropical sun,
and it’s been used for over 2,000 years.
The preaching work began here in 1914
with the arrival of two Bible Students.
Missionaries followed, and by 1939,
three congregations totaling 28 Witnesses
had been established.
In the 1940’s,
a pioneer sister contacted members
of the ethnic group known as the Karen.
Hnin May, also known as Lily,
and her sister Chu May, or Daisy,
learned the truth from her.
Lily became the first Karen
to be baptized as a Witness of Jehovah.
Daisy was also baptized,
and both became zealous pioneers.
Hundreds of their descendants
and Bible students
are among the thousands
who serve Jehovah in Myanmar today.
They’ve persevered despite poverty,
political upheaval,
religious persecution, and war.
Our brothers preach in over 20 languages.
In 2024, Myanmar reported
an all-time peak of publishers.
Nearly 12,000 people attended the Memorial.
The Hpado Congregation
is located in a small village
in the Bago Region.
Eighty-six publishers
and four special pioneers serve here.
Our brothers and sisters
in the Hpado Congregation
and the Hlaing Remote Translation Office
send you their love.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!